4 Reasons Why The Apple iPhone Will Fail
Published on January 09, 2007.
The focus of today’s Macworld 2007 was definitely the iPhone.
While general consensus is that the iPhone is the next killer app, I still have my doubts.
Here are 4 reasons why the Apple iPhone will fail:
1. Public Acceptance:
The average person doesn’t even use the WAP browser on their phone, let alone any full blown OSX apps!
What people want in a mobile phone is a phone; they don’t need all of these extras.
Extra software just makes it more difficult to perform the main function of the phone: to make phone calls.
2. Price:
The price of the iPhone was announced at $499 for the 4GB model and $599 for the 8GB with a 2 year contract.
Right now, you can get a T-Mobile MDA smartphone for $0 after rebate.
The mass market is not willing to pay this much for a phone.
3. Copyright and Regulations:
There already is an iPhone out.
It’s the Linksys Wireless-G Skype iPhone .
I hope Apple has a lot of money or lawyers to acquire the rights to the name.
Pair this with the fact that the iPhone doesn’t have FCC approval and we might never see the iPhone get to market.
How did Steve make all of those phone calls anyway?
4. Battery Life:
The iPhone runs OSX!
This is great for a laptop or a desktop computer, but does a phone really need OSX?
The battery life was announced as 5 hours of talk time, browsing, or video.
Basically, 5 hours of active use.
What happens after that?
Your phone is dead and no one can call you.
People are not going to use the iPhone’s features for fear of losing their connectivity when the battery runs out.